# Replicability of social vulnerability indices over time

## Abstract

Social vulnerability indices (SVI) have been widely replicated in different geographic contexts and across time, motivated by informing efficient and just policy in the context of threats to sustainability, including hazards, climate change, disease outbreaks, and more. Specifically, policymakers have used indices to prioritize geographic areas with high vulnerability for assistance in mitigation, risk reduction, response, and recovery and to monitor progress in reducing vulnerability.

Recognizing the widespread application of such indices with material impacts for geographic patterns of risk and vulnerability, researchers have devoted increasing attention to assessing index validity. Spielman et al (2020) replicated one SVI model with varying geographic extents, finding the index lacking in both internal validity and construct validity. We reproduced Spielman et al's study and then test SVI model validity over time by replicating with varying temporal extents using a series of ten American Community Survey five-year estimates from 2012 to 2021.

We practiced fully open and reproducible research by organizing all materials and metadata into a research compendium on GitHub, and by registering the compendium, analysis plan, and reports on OSF. We replicated the study across varying temporal extents to test internal validity and construct validity over time. We found a lack of internal validity, with some counties deviating by more than one standard deviation from a linear trend and displaying a lack of monotonicity. We also found a lack of construct validity, with some variables changing their relative contribution to the model over time and displaying a lack of monotonicity.


## Keywords

replication, reproducible research compendium, social vulnerability, validity
